---
excerpt: 'The Environmental Data Storage and Retrieval Service is a software, which supports storage, spatiotemporal indexing and retrieval of environmental information as this is provided by nodes that contain environmental  measurements'
types: results
tags:
- tool
- utility
images: []
layout: results
title: Environmental Data Storage and Retrieval Service
date: '2013-02-19T10:44:12+02:00'
---
<p>The Environmental Data Storage and Retrieval Service is a software, which supports storage, spatiotemporal indexing and retrieval of environmental information (e.g. air quality and weather forecasts, observations, historical data) as this is provided by nodes (e.g. sensors, stations, websites) that contain environmental measurements (e.g. weather conditions, air quality, pollen).</p><p>This implementation follows the Sensor Observation Service (SOS) 1.0 standard and builds upon <a href="http://52north.org/downloads/sensor-web/sos" target="_blank">52&deg;North SOS</a>. This service has been implemented in the context of the&nbsp; European project <a href="http://www.pescado-project.eu/" target="_blank">PESCaDO</a>, which deals with personalized orchestration and delivery of environmental information.</p><!--break--><h3>&nbsp;</h3><h3>Description</h3><p>This code is based on <a href="http://52north.org/downloads/sensor-web/sos">52&deg;North SOS</a> implementation and is extended in order to be able to cover the specific needs of the Data Retrieval Service (DRS) created within the context of&nbsp; <a href="http://www.pescado-project.eu/" target="_blank">PESCaDO </a>European Project. Despite the changes in both the code and the underlying database schema, the updated SOS service remains SOS1.0 compliant.</p><p>In general SOS (Sensor Observation Service) standard is applicable to use cases in which sensor data needs to be managed in an interoperable way. This standard defines a Web service interface which allows querying observations, sensor metadata, as well as representations of observed features. It also defines means to register new sensors and to remove existing ones and operations to insert new sensor observations. More information can be found <a href="http://www.opengeospatial.org/standards/sos">here</a>.</p><p>A brief overview of the supported SOS 1.0.0 operations implemented by 52North can be found <a href="https://wiki.52north.org/bin/view/SensorWeb/SensorObservationService#Operations" target="_blank">here</a>.</p><p>Regarding the main changes that were realized to cover PESCaDO needs, they can be summarized in the following points:<br />
&bull;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;One aspect (e.g. O3) can take several type of values (string, float)<br />
&bull;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;Different type of measurements with regard to the time the data refer to (i.e observed, forecast or historical values)<br />
&bull;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;Different type of aggregation used for historical measurements, e.g. minimum, maximum or average value)<br />
&bull;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;Time needs to capture not only a simple time instant which is the case in observed measurements), but also a time period (e.g. time start and time end) when forecast or historical values are measured.<br />
&bull;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;More information needs to be captured for data nodes (sensors)<br />
&nbsp;</p><p>More information regarding the changes realized can be found in the document Short_Description_of_Changes.docx found inside the rar file.</p><p style="font-family: Arial, Verdana, sans-serif; font-size: 12px; ">&nbsp;</p><p><strong><span style="font-size:14px;">Instructions</span></strong></p><p>1. Download the rar archive <a href="http://mklab.iti.gr/files/EDRS_code.rar" target="_blank">here</a>.</p><p>2. Unzip the archive. The code exists under the folder 52N-SOS-3.1.1 and there is a detailed installation guide in the file how2install_SOS.pdf which can be found under 52N-SOS-3.1.1\doc\howto folder.</p><p>3. The datamodel.sql file contains sql create and insert queries that result in the creation of the database schema.</p><p>4. The testDB.sql file contains an example set of records of the schema model tables.</p><p>Note that in order to be able to build the source code Maven is required and for using it Tomcat and Postgres with PostGIS are required</p><p>&nbsp;</p><h3>License</h3><p>This program is free software; you can redistribute and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 as published by the Free Software Foundation.<br />
<br />
This program is distributed WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; even without the implied WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details. There is a copy of&nbsp; the GNU General Public License along with this program&nbsp; (under 52N-SOS-3.1.1\gnu-gpl v2.txt folder)</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:14px;"><strong>Acknowledgements</strong></span></p><p>This work was supported by the EU FP7 project PESCaDO (FP7-248594).</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:14px;"><strong>Contact</strong></span></p><p>You may contact Anastasia Moumtzidou (moumtzid AT iti DOT gr) for any question or remark you may have with respect to this tool.</p>
